The problem of heads of a fighting force from long ago

---

Groups of computers that you can trust must handle broken parts that give facts
that don't agree to different parts of the group. This situation can be talked
about by pretending about the heads of a fighting force from long ago, who are
waiting with their people around a bad guy city. Talking to each other
only by a person who carries a letter, the people must agree upon a shared
fighting plan. However, one or more of them may be bad guys who will try to
confuse the others.
The problem is to find a plan to make sure that the good guys will agree on
something.  It is shown that, using only spoken letters, this problem is
possible if and only if more than two thirds of the heads are good guys; so a
single bad guy can confuse two good guys.  With written letters that can't be
pretended, the problem is possible for any number of heads and possible bad
guys. Ways to use the plans that are answers are then talked about.

Words about what this paper is about: C.2.4. [Computer-Talking Groups]: Groups of many computers--groups of brains of computers; D.4.4 [Computer Brains]: Managing Talking--talking in groups; D.4.5 [Computer Brains]: Being Trusted--accepting faults

Big Picture Words: Plans, Being Trusted

More Key Words and Groups of Words: Agreeing with yourself

---

This work was helped in part by the People Who Go To Space under plan NAS1-15428 Change 3, the Group for Being Safe Against Flying Fire Guns under plan DASG60-78-C-0046, and the Fighting Force Work Office under plan DAAG29-79-C-0102.

Where the people who wrote this live: Computer Study Work Place, SRI In Many Parts of the World, 333 Flying Animal's Wood Street, Park with a Person's Name, CA 94025.

Being allowed to take without paying all or part of this paper is given as long as the papers are not made or given for making money, the notice that ACM owns this and the name of the paper and its date appear, and notice is given that taking it is by being allowed by the Agreeing-group for Computer Making. To take in another way, or to put out again, needs paying and/or being more allowed.

© 1982 ACM 0164-0925/82/0700-0382 $00.75 ACM Talking about Ways to Speak to Computers and Groups, Part 4, No. 3, Month Seven 1982, Pieces of paper 382-401.

---

1. Opening words

A group of computers that can be trusted must be able to live with the breaking of one or more of its parts.
A broken part may act in a way that people often don't think about -- that is, sending facts that don't agree to different parts of the group.
The problem of living with this type of breaking is talked about with make-believe as the Problem of Heads of a Fighting Force from Long Ago. We spend the biggest part of the paper to talking about this make-believe problem and finish by showing how our answers can be used in building a group of computers that can be trusted.
We imagine that several parts of the fighting force from long ago are waiting outside a bad guy city, each group controlled by its own head.
The heads can talk with one another only by a person who carries a letter.
After watching the bad guys, they must decide upon a shared plan of attack.
However, some of the heads


